Hi there. Occasionally when you are using a
Unix system you'll find files in a strange
format. In other words the extension on them
might be something like some file dot tar
dot g z and you might say what
is that? Well, it's basically a zipped up
archive file. Basically it's just a zip file
that you can extract and it gives you
a folder or directory of files. So I
just wanted to quickly go over how you
would actually extract that from the command line.
Here's how you do it, if you want
to extract something like that you type tar
which stands for tape archive, which is from
back in the day when we actually used
to use magnetic tape to store files and
do backups and so forth. And you type
tar and then the options dash XVF which
stands for extract and V stands for show
me all the files you've extracted and F
stands for I'm about to give you a
filename. And then, in this case I have
one called assign zero dot tar dot g
z and it will, untar the file for
you. Okay? And if you wanna actually create
a zip file like that, you could actually
use the zip command, which is also pretty
common. But if you wanna create this particular
type of compressed file, you would type tar
c z, which stands for compressed into a
zipped form, and then v f, if you
wanna see all the files again, and then
a directory name and it will, oops, let's
see tar dot g z, a directory, a
filename and then a directory name and there
you go. And that's how that's how a
tar file tar command works. Thanks.